# Funding cycle

#### What everyone needs to know

* Each project can configure funding cycles to create contractual boundaries around its treasury's inflows and outflows of funds. 
* A funding cycle's parameters can't be changed while it is in progress, but the project owner can propose reconfigurations to future cycles at any time. 
* Funding cycles roll over automatically. If there is a reconfiguration in place and it has been approved by the current cycle's ballot, it will be used. Otherwise, a copy of the current funding cycle will be used with an updated `start` time and discounted `weight`.
* The mechanics of each project can vary dramatically depending on how its funding cycles are configured over time. [Become familiar with how projects work](./project) to get a better undertsanding of how these decisions can get made.

#### What you'll want to know if you're building

* A funding cycle is represented as a [`JBFundingCycle`](../../specifications/data-structures/jbfundingcycle.md) data structure.
* It is possible to create funding cycles that allow for total flexibility, total rigidity, or everything in between. Flexibility can be useful for rapid experimentation and evolution, whereas rigidity can be useful for dependability. Anyone can configure a project's first funding cycle alongside creating the project with a call to [`JBController.launchProjectFor(...)`](../../specifications/contracts/or-controllers/jbcontroller/write/launchprojectfor.md), and the project's owner can issue a reconfiguration to subsequent funding cycles with a call to [`JBController.reconfigurefundingcyclesof(...)`](../../specifications/contracts/or-controllers/jbcontroller/write/reconfigurefundingcyclesof.md).
* If a project has a current funding cycle, it can be found by reading from [`JBFundingCycleStore.currentOf(...)`](../../specifications/contracts/jbfundingcyclestore/read/currentof.md). A project's upcoming funding cycle can be found by reading from [`JBFundingCycleStore.queuedOf(...)`](../../specifications/contracts/jbfundingcyclestore/read/queuedof.md). The funding cycles that carry each original configuration can be found by reading from [`JBFundingCycleStore.get(...)`](../../specifications/contracts/jbfundingcyclestore/read/get.md).
* A funding cycle's `ballot` property is useful for setting rules according to which any proposed reconfiguration to subsequent cycles must adhere. This is useful for community oriented projects as it can prevent a project owner from changing an upcoming cycle's configuration exploitatively moments before it begins without the broader community's concent. A funding cycle's ballot status, which is a [`JBBallotState`](../../specifications/enums/jbballotstate.md) enumeration, can be found by reading from [`JBFundingCycleStore.currentBallotStateOf(...)`](../../specifications/contracts/jbfundingcyclestore/read/currentballotstateof.md).
* Look through the [`JBFundingCycleStore`](../../specifications/contracts/jbfundingcyclestore/) contract for a complete list of relevant read functions, write functions, and emitted events. Several properties of [`JBController`](../../specifications/contracts/or-controllers/jbcontroller/), [`JBETHPaymentTerminal`](../../specifications/contracts/or-payment-terminals/jbethpaymentterminal/), and [`JBETHPaymentTerminalStore`](../../specifications/contracts/or-payment-terminals/jbethpaymentterminalstore/) also store information relative to funding cycle configurations.