---
description: A step by step guide to kickstart your project.
---

# Create a Juicebox Project

{% hint style="warning" %}
The Juicebox protocol is not formally audited. All projects built on it may be vulnerable to bugs or exploits. Be smart and be curious, ask questions if you've got any.
{% endhint %}

Welcome folks!

To create a Juicebox Project, first press the 'connect' button in the top right corner of the [homepage](http://juicebox.money) to connect your wallet to Juicebox.

Next, click on 'Design your Project' or scroll down the homepage. The project design wizard is divided into two parts: the left side shows you all the necessary configuration steps, and the right side previews what your project will look like once created.

{% hint style="info" %}
Consider creating a test project on the Rinkeby testnet version of Juicebox at [rinkeby.juicebox.money](http://rinkeby.juicebox.money) before creating project on Ethereum mainnet. To use the Rinkeby version of Juicebox, you'll have to change your wallet to the Rinkeby network.
{% endhint %}

## Video Tutorial

This video tutorial gives an overview of setting up a Juicebox project.

{% embed url="https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/secure.notion-static.com/948ea000-7b7d-4cb2-885f-2eb962dea83f/JB_Project_Creation_Tutorial_2021-10-22_12-36-12-1.m4v?X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Content-Sha256=UNSIGNED-PAYLOAD&X-Amz-Credential=AKIAT73L2G45EIPT3X45%2F20211123%2Fus-west-2%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Date=20211123T222812Z&X-Amz-Expires=86400&X-Amz-Signature=0d49ffe474faaa506ee6884f1256b8d7551feacdd176c65ccf9473762ab7a62c&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&response-content-disposition=filename+%3D%22JB%2520Project%2520Creation%2520Tutorial%25202021-10-22%252012-36-12-1.m4v%22&x-id=GetObject" %}

## Section 1 - Identity

Complete as much as possible of the Identity Section of the project. Later changes to this field will cost gas.

## Section 2 - Funding

The Funding Section consists of picking a funding target and a funding cycle duration.

* **Funding Targets** are financial goals set for your project. The money invested into your project is placed into your treasury and creates tokens. If at any point the balance of the treasury is larger than the target funding you have set, then the access is called overflow. Anyone that has tokens can redeem them for a % of the overflow based on the bonding curve (check out Section 6 - Incentives for more info on the bonding curve). Having a Funding Target is required in order to have an Incentives Section.
*   The **Funding Period** lets you lock in and automate your budget parameters over time, and determines how often you can withdraw your target amount. Not having a Funding Period allows you to withdraw money from the project anytime, and allows you to manually trigger new funding cycles whenever you want.

    Your treasury strategy (including contributor payouts and fixed monthly costs) should be considered when creating a funding target and funding period.

## Section 3 - Spending

The Spending Section is where you can determine how you will distribute money. Recipients of payouts can be any Ethereum address, or any other Juicebox project. If you send to a Juicebox project, you'll want to specify the address that'll end up with that project's tokens. Payouts also allow for a lock date which prevents them from being changed or removed until a specific date or until the funding cycle is reconfigured.

* The % that you select is relative to the funding target you have set.
* Each time you withdraw funds from your treasury within the constraints of your configured target, the funds will be distributed to these payouts.

## Section 4 - Reserved Tokens

The Reserved Tokens are the amount of tokens generated by each payment made to the project that are going to be reserved for some preconfigured beneficiary addresses. Here, you can set the % of tokens that will be reserved and who is going to get them in what %.

* Let's assume that at a certain point, 1 ETH generates 100 tokens on your project. Let's say you set **Reserved tokens** to 10% and add two of your developers, giving them 50% each. When someone give 1 ETH to the project, the payer gets 90 tokens and each of the devs get 5.

## Section 5 - Rules

The Rules section is where you can choose the length of time before changes in a funding cycle can be implemented.

* Option 1 is a seven day delay meaning changes to the next funding cycle must be submitted seven days before it goes live. This allows for clarity and an opportunity for the proposition to be analyzed.
* Option 2 is setting no delay to implement a change to the funding cycle. This can be dangerous as immediate changes can allow for dangerous activities such as rug pulls.
* Option 3 is a customized contract where you can set your own rules for funding cycle reconfiguration.

## Section 6 - Incentives \`\`

This section will only appear if you have set a funding target. The Incentives Section is where you set parameters to define advantages of early supports and of your token hodlers who take longer to redeem their tokens. The simplified version is self explanatory, but it is recommended that you understand the advanced settings as well. The settings include two variables: the Discount Rate (DR) and the Bonding Curve (BC).

* The **Discount Rate** (DR) defines how quickly token production depreciates per amount of ETH. If 1 ETH generates 100 tokens in the cycle #1, and the DR is 20%, then 1 ETH is going to generate 80 tokens in cycle #2. If this rate is kept, cycle #3 will generate 64 tokens. This compound system always applies the percentage over the value of the next cycle. The applied rates are not reversible so progress carefully. The main goal here is to support and incentivize early supports who assume more risk. At a discount rate of 0%, supporters will always receive the same amount of your tokens for the same amount of ETH contributed. The max discount rate currently is 20%.
* The **Bonding Curve** (BC) defines how much ETH from your balance the token holders will be getting if they redeem their tokens from the overflow. 100% is a 1:1 proportion meaning if they got 1% of tokens, they can redeem (burn) them for 1% of ETH in the overflow. The lower the BC, the less someone can take from the overflow at any given time – the remaining part of the proportion is left to share between token hodlers. This mechanism rewards people that stay longer, but note that the redeemable value of a token also decreases as the project reallocates funds away from Juicebox. You can reconfigure your bonding curve over time as your funding cycles roll over.
